CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Nominatim contribution guidelines

## Workflow

We operate the "Fork & Pull" model explained at

https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests

You should fork the project into your own repo, create a topic branch
there and then make one or more pull requests back to the openstreetmap repository.
Your pull requests will then be reviewed and discussed.

## Coding style

Nominatim historically hasn't followed a particular coding style but we
are in process of consolodating the style. The following rules apply:

 * Python code uses the official Python style
 * indention
   * SQL use 2 spaces
   * all other file types use 4 spaces
   * [BSD style](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indent_style#Allman_style) for braces
 * spaces
   * spaces before and after equal signs and operators
   * no trailing spaces
   * no spaces after opening and before closing bracket
   * leave out space between a function name and bracket
     but add one between control statement(if, while, etc.) and bracket

This coding style must be applied to any new or changed code. You are also
welcome to fix the coding style of existing code but please submit separate
PRs for this.

## Testing

Before submitting a pull request make sure that the following tests pass:

```
  cd tests
  NOMINATIM_DIR=<builddir> lettuce -t -Fail -t -Tiger features/db features/osm2pgsql
```

```
  cd test-php
  phpunit ./
```

Commit message:

note phpcs command in contribution readme

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Nominatim contribution guidelines

## Workflow

We operate the "Fork & Pull" model explained at

https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests

You should fork the project into your own repo, create a topic branch
there and then make one or more pull requests back to the openstreetmap repository.
Your pull requests will then be reviewed and discussed.

## Coding style

Nominatim historically hasn't followed a particular coding style but we
are in process of consolodating the style. The following rules apply:

 * Python code uses the official Python style
 * indention
   * SQL use 2 spaces
   * all other file types use 4 spaces
   * [BSD style](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indent_style#Allman_style) for braces
 * spaces
   * spaces before and after equal signs and operators
   * no trailing spaces
   * no spaces after opening and before closing bracket
   * leave out space between a function name and bracket
     but add one between control statement(if, while, etc.) and bracket

The coding style is enforced with PHPCS and can be tested with:

```
  phpcs --report-width=120 --colors */**.php
```

## Testing

Before submitting a pull request make sure that the following tests pass:

```
  cd tests
  NOMINATIM_DIR=<builddir> lettuce -t -Fail -t -Tiger features/db features/osm2pgsql
```

```
  cd test-php
  phpunit ./
```
