docs/api/Details.md, before:

# Place details

Lookup details about a single place by id. The default output is HTML for debugging search logic and results.

**The details page (including JSON output) exists for debugging only and must not be downloaded automatically**, see [Nominatim Usage Policy](https://operations.osmfoundation.org/policies/nominatim/).


## Parameters

The details API supports the following two request formats:

```
  https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details?osmtype=[N|W|R]&osmid=<value>&class=<value>
```

`osmtype` and `osmid` are required parameter. The type is one of node (N), way (W)
or relation (R). The id must be a number. The `class` parameter is optional and
allows to distinguish between entries, when the corresponding OSM object has more
than one main tag. For example, when a place is tagged with `tourism=hotel` and
`amenity=restaurant`, there will be two place entries in Nominatim, one for a
restaurant, one for a hotel. You need to specify `class=tourism` or `class=amentity`
to get exactly the one you want. If there are multiple places in the database
but the `class` parameter is left out, then one of the places will be chosen
at random and displayed.

```
  https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details?place_id=<value>
```

Placeids are assigned sequentially during Nominatim data import. The id for a place is different between Nominatim installation (servers) and changes when data gets reimported. Therefore it can't be used as permanent id and shouldn't be used in bug reports.


Additional optional parameters are explained below.

### Output format

* `format=[html|json]`

See [Place Output Formats](Output.md) for details on each format. (Default: html)

* `json_callback=<string>`

Wrap JSON output in a callback function (JSONP) i.e. `<string>(<json>)`.
Only has an effect for JSON output formats.

* `pretty=[0|1]`

For JSON output will add indentation to make it more human-readable. (Default: 0)


### Output details

* `addressdetails=[0|1]`

Include a breakdown of the address into elements. (Default for JSON: 0, for HTML: 1)

* `keywords=[0|1]`

Include a list of name keywords and address keywords (word ids). (Default: 0)

* `linkedplaces=[0|1]`

Include details of places higher in the address hierarchy. E.g. for a street this is usually the city, state, postal code, country. (Default: 1)

* `hierarchy=[0|1]`

Include details of places lower in the address hierarchy. E.g. for a city this usually a list of streets, suburbs, rivers. (Default for JSON: 0, for HTML: 1)

* `group_hierarchy=[0|1]`

For JSON output will group the places by type. (Default: 0)

* `polygon_geojson=[0|1]`

Include geometry of result. (Default for JSON: 0, for HTML: 1)

### Language of results

* `accept-language=<browser language string>`

Preferred language order for showing result, overrides the value
specified in the "Accept-Language" HTTP header.
Either use a standard RFC2616 accept-language string or a simple
comma-separated list of language codes.


## Examples

##### HTML

[https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details.php?osmtype=W&osmid=38210407](https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details.php?osmtype=W&osmid=38210407)

##### JSON

[https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details.php?osmtype=W&osmid=38210407&format=json](https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details.php?osmtype=W&osmid=38210407&format=json)


```json
{
  "place_id": 85993608,
  "parent_place_id": 72765313,
  "osm_type": "W",
  "osm_id": 38210407,
  "category": "place",
  "type": "square",
  "admin_level": "15",
  "localname": "Pariser Platz",
  "names": {
    "name": "Pariser Platz",
    "name:be": "Парыжская плошча",
    "name:de": "Pariser Platz",
    "name:es": "Plaza de París",
    "name:he": "פאריזר פלאץ",
    "name:ko": "파리저 광장",
    "name:la": "Forum Parisinum",
    "name:ru": "Парижская площадь",
    "name:uk": "Паризька площа",
    "name:zh": "巴黎廣場"
  },
  "addresstags": {
    "postcode": "10117"
  },
  "housenumber": null,
  "calculated_postcode": "10117",
  "country_code": "de",
  "indexed_date": "2018-08-18T17:02:45+00:00",
  "importance": 0.339401620591472,
  "calculated_importance": 0.339401620591472,
  "extratags": {
    "wikidata": "Q156716",
    "wikipedia": "de:Pariser Platz"
  },
  "calculated_wikipedia": "de:Pariser_Platz",
  "rank_address": 30,
  "rank_search": 30,
  "isarea": true,
  "centroid": {
    "type": "Point",
    "coordinates": [
      13.3786822618517,
      52.5163654
    ]
  },
  "geometry": {
    "type": "Point",
    "coordinates": [
      13.3786822618517,
      52.5163654
    ]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

update API documentation
* remove traces of HTML output
* add details on artificial objects (see also #1671)
* add geometry output documentation for lookup
* deprecate query by ID via reverse endpoint
* remove /search/<query> query format, no longer supported
* explain better what reverse geocoding does
* lots of smaller fixes to wording

docs/api/Details.md, after:

# Place details

Show all details about a single place saved in the database.

!!! warning
    The details page exists for debugging only. You may not use it in scripts
    or to automatically query details about a result.
    See [Nominatim Usage Policy](https://operations.osmfoundation.org/policies/nominatim/).


## Parameters

The details API supports the following two request formats:

``` xml
https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details?osmtype=[N|W|R]&osmid=<value>&class=<value>
```

`osmtype` and `osmid` are required parameters. The type is one of node (N), way (W)
or relation (R). The id must be a number. The `class` parameter is optional and
allows to distinguish between entries, when the corresponding OSM object has more
than one main tag. For example, when a place is tagged with `tourism=hotel` and
`amenity=restaurant`, there will be two place entries in Nominatim, one for a
restaurant, one for a hotel. You need to specify `class=tourism` or `class=amentity`
to get exactly the one you want. If there are multiple places in the database
but the `class` parameter is left out, then one of the places will be chosen
at random and displayed.

``` xml
https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details?place_id=<value>
```

Place IDs are assigned sequentially during Nominatim data import. The ID
for a place is different between Nominatim installation (servers) and
changes when data gets reimported. Therefore it cannot be used as
a permanent id and shouldn't be used in bug reports.


Additional optional parameters are explained below.

### Output format

* `json_callback=<string>`

Wrap JSON output in a callback function (JSONP) i.e. `<string>(<json>)`.

* `pretty=[0|1]`

Add indentation to make it more human-readable. (Default: 0)


### Output details

* `addressdetails=[0|1]`

Include a breakdown of the address into elements. (Default: 0)

* `keywords=[0|1]`

Include a list of name keywords and address keywords (word ids). (Default: 0)

* `linkedplaces=[0|1]`

Include a details of places that are linked with this one. Places get linked
together when they are different forms of the same physical object. Nominatim
links two kinds of objects together: place nodes get linked with the
corresponding administrative boundaries. Waterway relations get linked together with their
members.
(Default: 1)

* `hierarchy=[0|1]`

Include details of places lower in the address hierarchy. . (Default: 0)

* `group_hierarchy=[0|1]`

For JSON output will group the places by type. (Default: 0)

* `polygon_geojson=[0|1]`

Include geometry of result. (Default: 0)

### Language of results

* `accept-language=<browser language string>`

Preferred language order for showing result, overrides the value
specified in the "Accept-Language" HTTP header.
Either use a standard RFC2616 accept-language string or a simple
comma-separated list of language codes.


## Examples

##### JSON

[https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details.php?osmtype=W&osmid=38210407&format=json](https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/details.php?osmtype=W&osmid=38210407&format=json)


```json
{
  "place_id": 85993608,
  "parent_place_id": 72765313,
  "osm_type": "W",
  "osm_id": 38210407,
  "category": "place",
  "type": "square",
  "admin_level": "15",
  "localname": "Pariser Platz",
  "names": {
    "name": "Pariser Platz",
    "name:be": "Парыжская плошча",
    "name:de": "Pariser Platz",
    "name:es": "Plaza de París",
    "name:he": "פאריזר פלאץ",
    "name:ko": "파리저 광장",
    "name:la": "Forum Parisinum",
    "name:ru": "Парижская площадь",
    "name:uk": "Паризька площа",
    "name:zh": "巴黎廣場"
  },
  "addresstags": {
    "postcode": "10117"
  },
  "housenumber": null,
  "calculated_postcode": "10117",
  "country_code": "de",
  "indexed_date": "2018-08-18T17:02:45+00:00",
  "importance": 0.339401620591472,
  "calculated_importance": 0.339401620591472,
  "extratags": {
    "wikidata": "Q156716",
    "wikipedia": "de:Pariser Platz"
  },
  "calculated_wikipedia": "de:Pariser_Platz",
  "rank_address": 30,
  "rank_search": 30,
  "isarea": true,
  "centroid": {
    "type": "Point",
    "coordinates": [
      13.3786822618517,
      52.5163654
    ]
  },
  "geometry": {
    "type": "Point",
    "coordinates": [
      13.3786822618517,
      52.5163654
    ]
  }
}
```
